 Install Flutter SDK
Download Flutter SDK:

Visit the Flutter website and download the Flutter SDK for your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).
Extract the Flutter SDK:

Extract the downloaded Flutter SDK zip file to a location on your computer.
Set up Flutter Path:

Add the Flutter SDK bin directory to your system path. This allows you to run Flutter commands from the command line.
Example for macOS/Linux:
bash
Copy code
export PATH="$PATH:/path/to/flutter/bin"
Example for Windows:
swift
Copy code
set PATH="%PATH%;C:\path\to\flutter\bin"
Verify Flutter Installation:

Open a new terminal window and run flutter doctor. This command checks your Flutter installation and displays a report of any issues.
Step 2: Install Android Studio (Recommended)
Download Android Studio:

Visit the Android Studio website and download the latest version of Android Studio for your operating system.
Install Android Studio:

Follow the installation instructions provided by the Android Studio setup wizard.
During installation, make sure to select "Android Virtual Device" and "Flutter plugin" for Android Studio.
Step 3: Configure Android Studio for Flutter
Install Flutter and Dart Plugins:

Open Android Studio.
Go to Preferences on macOS or Settings on Windows/Linux.
Navigate to Plugins and search for "Flutter" and "Dart".
Install both plugins and restart Android Studio.
Set Flutter SDK Path:

After restarting Android Studio, go to Preferences/Settings > Languages & Frameworks > Flutter.
Set the Flutter SDK path to the directory where you extracted the Flutter SDK.
Step 4: Install Visual Studio Code (Optional)
Download Visual Studio Code:

Visit the Visual Studio Code website and download the latest version of Visual Studio Code for your operating system.
Install Flutter and Dart Extensions:

Open Visual Studio Code.
Go to the Extensions view by clicking on the square icon in the sidebar or by pressing Ctrl+Shift+X.
Search for "Flutter" and "Dart" extensions and install them.
Step 5: Set up Android Device or Emulator
Set up Android Device:

Enable Developer Options on your Android device by tapping the build number multiple times in the device settings.
Enable USB debugging in the Developer Options.
Connect your Android device to your computer via USB.
Set up Android Emulator (AVD):

Open Android Studio.
Go to Tools > AVD Manager.
Create a new virtual device by following the instructions provided.
Step 6: Verify Flutter Installation
Run Flutter Doctor:
Open a terminal or command prompt.
Run flutter doctor. This command checks your Flutter installation and environment setup.
